Learn JLPT N4 Grammar: かな (kana)

June 23, 2017

  
Learn Japanese N4 Grammar

Meaning:
 I wonder, should I?, is it?, I wish that (with a negative), I hope that

Formation:

Sentence + かな

Example sentences:

本当に正直に話していいかな？
You really want me to tell the truth?
hontou ni shoujiki ni hanashite ii kana.

そんなに結婚を嫌うんなら、どうしてご自分は結婚したのかな。
If she dislikes marriage so much, why did she ever marry herself?
sonna ni kekkon o kiraun nara, doushite gojibun wa kekkon shita no kana.

どうやって電子地図なしで切り抜けてきたのかな、と思うよ。
I’m wondering how I managed to survive without electronic maps.
dou yatte denshi chizu nashi de kirinukete kita no kana, to omou yo.

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Grammar Audio Lesson Part 1 (free, MP3 file).

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Grammar Audio Lesson Part 2 to Part 10 (requires paid membership).

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Vocabulary Audio Lesson Part 1 (free, MP3 file).

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Vocabulary Audio Lesson Part 2 to Part 12 (requires paid membership).

アカネは菜食主義者だと言っているが、魚は食べる。それって、筋が通るかな？
Akane says she’s a vegetarian, but she eats fish. Does that make sense to you?
akane wa saishoku shugisha da to itte iru ga, sakana wa taberu. sore tte, suji ga tooru kana.
***筋が通る (suji ga tooru): to make sense, to be logical

もしもう三年大学に行って博士号をとりたいと言ったら、パパはなんて言うかな。
How do you think Dad would feel if I told him I wanted to stay school in for another three years to get my PhD?
moshi mou sannen daigaku ni itte hakasegou o toritai to ittara, papa wa nan te iu kana.

家に帰って寝たほうがいいじゃないかな。
Shouldn’t you go home and get some sleep?
ie ni kaette neta hou ga ii janai kana.

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Vocabulary Infographics Part 1 (free).

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Vocabulary Infographics Part 2 to Part 4 (requires paid membership).

家庭的というのは、家族を持つという現実的な条件よりも、それにふさわしい世界観を持つ人間のことじゃないかな。
I think that being a family man is more about having the proper worldview than the actual condition of having a family.
kateiteki to iu no wa, kazoku o motsu to iu genjitsuteki na jouken yorimo, sore ni fusawashii sekaiken o motsu ningen no koto janai kana.

わたしは他にも誰か誘ったかな？酔っぱらってるときはよくこんなことをやるものだ。
Have I invited anyone else? One does these things in moments of expansion.
watashi wa hoka ni mo dareka sasotta kana. yopparatteru toki wa yoku konna koto o yaru mono da.

旅は、見るというより経験すること、なのかな…
Traveling has less to do with seeing things than experiencing them…
tabi wa, miru to iu yori keiken suru koto, na no kana.

やっぱりこれは今日やったほうがいいかな、それとも明日でもいいかな。
Would I rather do this today or tomorrow?
yappari kore wa kyou yatta hou ga ii kana, soretomo ashita demo ii kana.

あなたはわたしといっしょに旅行するのはいやなのかな？
You wouldn’t like me to travel with you, would you?
anata wa watashi to issho ni ryokou suru no wa iya na no kana.

このチョコバー、食べちゃおうかな？
Do I want to eat this candy bar now?
kono chokobaa, tabechaou kana.

織田、私のオフィスまで来てもらえるかな？
Oda, can you come over to my office?
oda, watashi no ofisu made kite moraeru kana.

あなたはルームシェアしたことがあるかな？
Have you ever shared a room?
anata wa ruumushea shita koto ga aru kana.

Similar grammar:

かしら (kashira): I wonder
じゃないか (janai ka): right?, isn’t it?
ことか (koto ka): how…!, what…!
ではあるまいか (dewa aru mai ka): I wonder if it’s not…

Learn JLPT N4 Grammar: みたいに / みたいな (mitai ni / mitai na)