Learn JLPT N4 Grammar: そうだ (sou da) – 1

July 26, 2015

  
Learn Japanese N4 Grammar

Meaning:
 people say that; it is said that; I heard that

Formation:

Verb-casual + そうだ
Noun + だそうだ
いadj + そうだ
なadj + だそうだ

Example sentences:

天気予報によると、明日は大雪だそうです。
According to the weather forecast, there will be heavy snow tomorrow.
tenki yohou ni yoru to, ashita wa ooyuki da sou desu.

田中さんはまだ独身だそうです。
I heard that Tanaka is still single.
tanaka san wa mada dokushin da sou desu.

君は昨夜、ずいぶん多くの命を救ったそうだね。
I heard that you saved a lot of lives last night.
kimi wa yuube, zuibun ooku no inochi o sukutta sou da ne.

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Grammar Audio Lesson Part 1 (free, MP3 file).

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Grammar Audio Lesson Part 2 to Part 10 (requires paid membership).

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Vocabulary Audio Lesson Part 1 (free, MP3 file).

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Vocabulary Audio Lesson Part 2 to Part 12 (requires paid membership).

先生によると、今度の期末試験は難しいそうです。
According to our teacher, the final exam is gonna be difficult.
sensei ni yoru to, kondo no kimatsu shiken wa muzukashii sou desu.

田中君の話によると、山田さんはもう日本へ帰ったそうです。
According to Tanaka, Yamada already returned to Japan.
tanaka kun no hanashi ni yoru to, yamada san wa mou nihon e kaetta sou desu.

うわさでは、橋本がついに職を得たそうだ。
Rumor has it that Hashimoto finally got the job.
uwasa dewa, hashimoto ga tsui ni shoku o eta sou da.

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Vocabulary Infographics Part 1 (free).

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Vocabulary Infographics Part 2 to Part 4 (requires paid membership).

後日アキコから聞かされたところによれば、彼女はわたしが入ってきたときうれしい驚きを感じたそうだ。
Later Akiko would tell me that she had been pleasantly surprised when I walked into her office.
gojitsu akiko kara kikasareta tokoro ni yoreba, kanojo wa watashi ga haitte kita toki ureshii odoroki o kanjita sou da.

正午に天皇がみずから放送をされるそうだ、男はそう怒鳴ると、急いで去っていった。
It had been announced that the emperor would be making a personal broadcast at noon, the man exclaimed before rushing off.
shougo ni tennou ga mizukara housou o sareru sou da, otoko wa sou donaru to, isoide satte itta.

この夫婦の話によると、彼らの息子は真珠湾攻撃のあった翌日に入隊したそうだ。夫人は、ひとり息子のことが心配で、半病人のような状態になったという。
This couple told me that their son had joined the armed forces the day after Pearl Harbor. The woman told me that she had almost wrecked her health worrying over that only son.
kono fuufu no hanashi ni yoru to, karera no musuko wa shinjuwan kougeki no atta yokujitsu ni nyuutai shita sou da. fujin wa, hitori musuko no koto ga shinpai de, han byounin no you na joutai ni natta to iu.

さらにもうひとつちょっと質問をさせていただけませんか？ひとつだけつまらない考えを述べさせていただこうかと思ったのです。これはただ、忘れないうちに聞いておきたいというだけのことなのです。
Allow me one little question. There is just one little notion I want to express, simply that I may not forget it.
sara ni mou hitotsu chotto shitsumon o sasete itadakemasen ka. hitotsu dake tsumaranai kangae o nobesasete itadakou ka to omotta no desu. kore wa tada, wasurenai uchi ni kiite okitai to iu dake no koto na no desu.

Similar grammar:

そうに/そうな (sou ni/sou na): seem, look like
とか～とか (toka~toka): among other things
ようだ (you da): it seems that
と聞いた (to kiita): I heard…

Learn JLPT N4 Grammar: と聞いた (to kiita)

Learn JLPT N4 Grammar: てもらう (te morau)