Learn JLPT N4 Grammar: 予定だ (yotei da)

July 27, 2015

  
Learn Japanese N4 Grammar

Click on image to view full size.

Meaning:
 plan to, intend to

Formation:

Verb-dictionary form + 予定だ
Noun + の予定だ

Example sentences:

わたしは留学をする予定です。
I’m planning to study abroad.
watashi wa ryuugaku suru yotei desu.

あなたはこのクラスで、今年何を教える予定ですか。
What are you planning to cover with this class this year?
anata wa kono kurasu de, kotoshi nani o oshieru yotei desu ka.

日本語を勉強をする予定です。
I’m planning to study Japanese.
nihongo o benkyou o suru yotei desu.

今日は全部で何人来る予定ですか。
How many people plan to come today?
kyou wa zenbu de nannin kuru yotei desu ka.

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Grammar Audio Lesson Part 1 (free, MP3 file).

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Grammar Audio Lesson Part 2 to Part 10 (requires paid membership).

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Vocabulary Audio Lesson Part 1 (free, MP3 file).

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Vocabulary Audio Lesson Part 2 to Part 12 (requires paid membership).

これから一年、食べたり眠ったりする予定はあるの？
Are you planning to eat or sleep at all this year?
kore kara ichinen, tabetari nemuttari suru yotei wa aru no.

始めは飛行機で行く予定だったんだけど、友達がお金がないというから、船で行くことにしたんだ。
We planned to go by plane at first, but my friend said that she doesn’t have any money, so we decided to go by boat.
hajime wa hikouki de iku yotei dattan da kedo, tomodachi ga okane ga nai to iu kara, fune de iku koto ni shitan da.

今年も北海道を旅する予定です。
I’m planning to go to Hokkaido this year too.
kotoshi mo hokkaidou o tabi suru yotei desu.

わたしは先生を訪ねる予定だった。
I planned to visit my teacher.
watashi wa sensei o tazuneru yotei datta.

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Vocabulary Infographics Part 1 (free).

Click here
 to download JLPT N4 Vocabulary Infographics Part 2 to Part 4 (requires paid membership).

顧客が「クリック＆バイ」で買えるようにする予定です。
We’re going to allow the consumer to click and buy.
kokyaku ga kurikku ando bai de kaeru you ni suru yotei desu.

家具は、引越し業者が今日届けてくれる予定です。
The moving company is going to deliver my furniture today.
kagu wa, hikkoshi gyousha ga kyou todokete kureru yotei desu.

一ヶ月かそこらで、僕は花婿さんになる予定です。
In about a month I hope to be a bridegroom.
ikkagetsu ka sokora de, boku wa hanamukosan ni naru yotei desu.

私は三日後に大阪に向けて発つ予定です。
I’m preparing to depart in three days for Osaka.
watashi wa mikkago ni oosaka ni mukete tatsu yotei desu.

一、二週間たったら、東京に帰る予定です。
I shall return to Tokyo in a week or two.
ichi, nishuukan tattara, toukyou ni kaeru yotei desu.

一行は土曜日の午後、七時の晩餐に間にあうように到着する予定だった。
The party were expected to arrive on Saturday afternoon, in time for dinner at seven.
ikkou wa doyoubi no gogo, shichiji no bansan ni maniau you ni touchaku suru yotei datta.

東京では数ヶ月滞在の予定で、旧友たちと再会するだけの暇は十分にあったが、特別に私の会う男が一人いた。
I should be in Kyoto for some months—time enough to look up old friends, and one old friend in particular.
kyouto de wa suukagetsu taizai no yotei de, kyuuyuutachi to saikai suru dake no hima wa juubun ni atta ga, tokubetsu ni watashi no au otoko ga hitori ita.

今日、午前八時に飛行機で長野を出発する予定だ。
I am to leave Nagano by plane at eight a.m. today.
kyou, gozen hachiji ni hikouki de nagano o shuppatsu suru yotei da.

数ヶ月のうちに認可を受ける予定です。
I expect to get my license in the next several months.
suukagetsu no uchi ni ninka o ukeru yotei desu.

大統領は、イギリスの新首相を訪問する予定です。
The president is planning to pay a visit to the newly elected prime minister of the UK.
daitouryou wa, igirisu no shinshushou o houmon suru yotei desu.

Similar grammar:

つもりで (tsumori de): with the intention of doing
つもり (tsumori): plan to do something
ようと思う (you to omou): thinking of doing
気 (ki): feel like

Learn JLPT N4 Grammar: がる (garu)

Learn JLPT N4 Grammar: 続ける (tsuzukeru)